We had a look at how to use web components in Angular,
now what if you're a React developer? Now if you watch the Angular video, it's very similar in how you
use them, just how you unlock them differs.
So let's go into that React.js folder
and first of all, let's run npm install and then you see components in there with
--save to also add an entry to the package.json file and this will now again install my package from
the npm registry.
So let's also run npm install to install all other packages
that this project requires
and with that, we'll be ready to go. Now to unlock our components, we need to go into that index.js
file in the source folder or in general, you want to go into that file where you render your React application
to the screen for the first time with React DOM render
and in my case that happens to be the index.js file. In there, you want to import something from your
uc-components package,
so let me wait for this installation to finish up here and with it finished,
I can now import from uc-components and there, /dist/loader and that is the same path we
used in the Angular video in case you watch this.
From there, you can install define custom elements or import that and you need to call that and you
can call it here at the very end, define custom elements and you pass the window object to this function
and this will register all these elements as elements in your React application.
Now you can just use it, for example here in the app.js file,
I'll get rid of all the other code and I will use my us-stock-price tag here,
so let's add it like this. Important, use lowercase notation,
so use your original tag, use like a normal HTML element and then run npm start to bring up that development
server React ships with or this React project ships with which loads the app on http://www.localhost:3000,
let's just wait for this to reload
and here it is
and there again and I'm just overwriting some styles here with the default styles in the React project
hence it looks a bit different,
it's still my component and this just proves that styles can be written but now you see, that works
and I already showed it in the Angular project but maybe you missed that.
We can see stencils smart reloading and code splitting in action here.
If we load this app for the first time, we see a bunch of chunks here, 10 chunk, main chunk, 4 chunk
and now let me show the difference when I
also add the uc-stock-finder here,
so we use that other component too. When that loads,
you actually see 6 chunk, 4 chunk, 13 chunk,
so even though the numbers change in general which makes this a bit harder to understand,
you see that the different chunks were loaded right,
6 chunk, 4 chunk, 13 chunk,
before that we only had two chunks with numbers in them.
So that seems to be that extra component and the cool thing is when we now add a condition such that
this is not always rendered, let's say here we have some state in our component and for this, you need
to know how React works so that this makes sense and we have the showStockFinder prop here which
is false initially, than here I have the stock finder variable in my render function and initially,
this is null let's say but if this state showStockFinder is true, then stock finder, this variable should
actually be that JSX code here and then down there, I will output stock finder. If I do it like this,
this should not be loaded as long as the state showStockFinder is false.
And if I reload this page, we indeed only have 2 chunks with numbers in them again, the 10 chunk
which is this very large file and the 4 chunk which is a small file. That other small file we saw a second
ago is missing now.
Now let's add some logic to switch that state.
So below that, I will add a button, show finder and when we click that with an onClick handler, then
I went to switch my state.
Now here, I'll use an inline arrow function and I will call this set state and set showStockFinder
to true here.
Now if we do that and this page reloads, again we only have the 13 and the 4 chunk, now if I clear that
and I click show finder,
now you see that component is loaded and only now its code is loaded
and here, it's even smaller than in the Angular app because it's basically bundled up in a more efficient
way here in development mode. In Angular,
it's also important
to know that we use the development mode too in production mode,
it would have been smaller in Angular too.
So it's super small here and it's loaded lazily out of the box due to the way stencil builds its
components.